AWS Route 53 GSLB Multi-Region Proxy Peering High Availability Deployment Guide (#24164)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/deploy-a-cluster/aws-gslb-proxy-peering-ha-deployment.mdx

- [AWS Network Load Balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html)
- [AWS DynamoDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html) for cluster state storage
- [AWS S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html) for session recording storage

## Advantages of this deployment architecture
- Eliminates the complexity and cost of maintaining multiple Teleport clusters across multiple regions
- Uses the lowest latency path to connect users to resources
- Provides a highly resilient, redundant HA architecture for Teleport that can quickly 
  scale with an organization's needs.
- All required Teleport components can be provisioned within the AWS ecosystem.
- Using load balancers for the Proxy and Auth services allows for increased availability 
  during Teleport Cluster upgrades.

## Disadvantages of this deployment architecture
- When Teleport Auth servers are limited to a single region, there is a higher likelihood 
  of decreased availability during an AWS regional outage.

> - Technically complex to deploy

Reviewer: adding the proxy peering and GSLB component for multi-region low latency is more complex than single region HA, we could call out that this is in comparison to single region deployments

[Latency-based routing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/routing-policy-latency.html) 
in a public hosted zone must be used to ensure traffic from Teleport 
resources are routed to the closest or lowest latency path Proxy NLB based on the region of 
the VPC the resource is connecting from.

To create GSLB routing, create a CNAME record for each region where you have VPCs containing Teleport connected resources.
It is recommended to add a wildcard record for every region if you plan to use Teleport Application Access.

The following CNAME record values need to be set:
- **Value:** The domain name of the NLB where `example-region-1` located Teleport resource traffic should be routed
- **Routing policy:** Latency
- **Region:** The AWS region from which traffic should be routed to the NLB listed in **Value**
- **Health Check ID:** It is recommended that you set this so that traffic is always routed to a healthy NLB

Example Hosted Zone using AWS Route53 Latency Routing to create GSLB:

### Root GSLB record for Teleport:

|Record name|Type|Value|
|---|---|---|
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|AWS Route 53 nameservers|

> ### Teleport Proxy DNS records for GSLB:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Teleport Proxy DNS records for GSLB:

```

|Record name|Type|Routing Policy|Region|Value|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|```teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|us-west-1| ```elb.us-west-1.amazonaws.com``` |
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|us-west-1| ```elb.us-west-1.amazonaws.com``` |
|```teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

If you are using Let's Encrypt to provide TLS credentials to your Teleport
instances, the TLS credential system we mentioned earlier needs permissions to
manage Route53 DNS records in order to satisfy Let's Encrypt's DNS-01 challenge. 

</Admonition>

> ### Teleport resource agent configuration for GSLB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Teleport resource agent configuration for GSLB

```

---
title: "AWS Multi-Region High Availability Deployment Guide"
description: "Deploying a high-availability Teleport cluster using Proxy Peering and Route 53 to create global server load balancing."
---

This deployment architecture features two important design decisions:

1. AWS Route 53 latency-based routing is used for global server load balancing 
   ([GSLB](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/global-server-load-balancing-gslb/)).
   This allows for efficient distribution of traffic across resources that are globally distributed.

2. Teleport's [Proxy Peering](../architecture/proxy-peering.mdx) is used to reduce the total number of tunnel connections in the Teleport cluster.

This deployment architecture isn't recommended for use cases where your users or resources are 
clustered in a single region, or for Managed Service Providers needing to provide separate clusters 
to customers.

This architecture is best suited for globally distributed resources and end-users that prefer a single point of
entry while also ensuring minimal latency when accessing connected resources.

> ## Key deployment components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Key deployment components

```

> - High-availability Teleport cluster

Reviewer 2: What did you think of this comment? https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/24164#discussion_r1189072435

---
title: "AWS Multi-Region High Availability Deployment Guide"
description: "Deploying a Proxy-peered High Availability Teleport Cluster using Route 53 to create Global Server Load Balancing"
---

## Overview

This deployment architecture features two important design decisions:

1. AWS Route 53 Latency based routing is used for Global Server Load Balancing 

>    [GSLB](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/global-server-load-balancing-gslb/). 

Reviewer 3: Here we mention AWS and then link to a Cloudflare page. Is there an AWS GSLB doc we could link to instead?

Author: @zmb3 AWS doesn't have documentation on it. My understanding is that GSLB is an architecture type that is created through the use of DNS geographic or latency routing. It isn't a service or product actually offered by AWS.

   This allows for efficient distribution of traffic across resources that are globally distributed.

> 2. Teleport's Proxy Peering is used to reduce the total number of tunnel connections in the Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Teleport's [Proxy Peering](../architecture/proxy-peering.mdx) is used to reduce the total number of tunnel connections in the Teleport cluster.
```

> This deployment architecture isn’t recommended for use cases where your users or resources are 

Reviewer 4: nit: Don't use smart quotes

```suggestion
This deployment architecture isn't recommended for use cases where your users or resources are 
```

clustered in a single region or for Managed Service Providers needing to provide separate clusters 
to customers.

> We recommend this for globally distributed resources and end-users that prefer a single point of

Reviewer 3: It's not clear what _this_ is here.
```suggestion
This architecture is best suited for globally distributed resources and end-users that prefer a single point of
```

entry while also ensuring minimal latency when accessing connected resources.

### Key deployment components
- High Availability Teleport Cluster
- Deployed exclusively in AWS ecosystem
- Auth Servers must remain in a single region

> - Proxies are deployed across multiple regions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Proxy Servers are deployed across multiple regions
```

- [AWS Route 53 latency based routing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/routing-policy-latency.html) 
- [GSLB](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/global-server-load-balancing-gslb/)
- [Teleport TLS Routing](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/tls-routing/) to reduce the number of ports needed to use Teleport
- [Teleport Proxy Peering](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/proxy-peering/) for reducing the number of resource connections
- [AWS Network Load Balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html)
- [AWS DynamoDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html) for cluster state storage
- [AWS S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html) for session recording storage

## Advantages of this deployment architecture
- Eliminates the complexity maintaining multiple Teleport clusters across multiple regions
- Uses the lowest latency path to connect users to resources
- Provides a highly-resilient, redundant HA architecture for Teleport that can quickly 

>   scale with an organization’s needs.

Reviewer 4: nit: smart quotes

```suggestion
  scale with an organization's needs.
```

- All required Teleport components can be provisioned within the AWS ecosystem.
- Using load balancers for the Proxy and Auth services allows for increased availability 
  during Teleport Cluster upgrades.

## Disadvantages of this deployment architecture
- When Teleport Auth servers are limited to a single region, there is a higher likelihood 

>   of decreased availability during an AWS regional outage.

Author: @webvictim like you describe at the end of your comment there are workarounds but they are typically cost-prohibitive.

## AWS Network load balancer (NLB)
AWS NLBs are required for this highly available deployment architecture. 
The NLB forwards traffic from users and services to an available Teleport instance. This must not 
terminate TLS, and must transparently forward the TCP traffic it receives. 
In other words, this must be a Layer 4 load balancer, not a Layer 7 
(e.g., HTTP) load balancer. 

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
Cross-zone load balancing is requried for the Auth and Proxy service NLB configurations to route 
traffic across multiple zones. Doing this improves resiliency against localized AWS zone outages.
</Admonition>

### Configure the Proxy Service NLBs
Configure the load balancer to forward traffic from the following ports on the
load balancer to the corresponding port on an available Teleport instance. The
configuration depends on whether you route Proxy Peering traffic over 
the public internet:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Public NLB Proxy ports">

| Port | Description |
| - | - |
| `443` | ALPN port for TLS Routing,  HTTPS connections to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster, and to serve a Web UI |

> | `3021`| Proxy Peering gRPC Stream  |

Author: @webvictim Instead of removing this suggestion, should we reframe it as something that is technically possible that we advise against? I'm going to guess that there will be >0 people that try to set it up this way. Or we could add on a troubleshooting section and include this as a possible misconfiguration?

provision Teleport Proxy Service instances with these credentials and renew them
periodically. 

For high-availability deployments that use Let's Encrypt to supply TLS
credentials to Teleport instances running behind a load balancer, you need
to use the [ACME
DNS-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge)
challenge to demonstrate domain name ownership to Let's Encrypt. In this
challenge, your TLS credential provisioning system creates a DNS TXT record with
a value expected by Let's Encrypt.

## Global Server Load Balancing with Route 53

[Latency-based routing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/routing-policy-latency.html) 
in a public hosted zone must be used to ensure traffic from Teleport 
resources are routed to the closest or lowest latency path Proxy NLB based on the region of 
the VPC the resource is connecting from.

To create GSLB routing, create a CNAME record for each region you have VPCs containing Teleport connected resources.
It is recommeded to add a wildcard record for every region if you plan to use Teleport Appplication Access.

The following CNAME record values need to be set:

> - **Value:** The domain name of the NLB where example-region-1 located Teleport resource traffic should be routed

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Value:** The domain name of the NLB where `example-region-1` located Teleport resource traffic should be routed
```

- **Routing policy:** Latency
- **Region:** The AWS region from which traffic should be routed to the NLB listed in **Value**
- **Health Check ID:** It is recommended that you set this so that traffic is always routed to a healthy NLB

Example Hosted Zone using AWS Route53 Latency Routing to create GSLB:

### Root GSLB record for Teleport:

|Record name|Type|Value|
|---|---|---|

> |```*teleport.example.com```|CNAME|AWS Route 53 nameservers|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|AWS Route 53 nameservers|
```

### Teleport Proxy DNS records for GSLB:
|Record name|Type|Routing Policy|Region|Value|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|```teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|us-west-1| ```elb.us-west-1.amazonaws.com``` |
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|us-west-1| ```elb.us-west-1.amazonaws.com``` |
|```teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

If you are using Let's Encrypt to provide TLS credentials to your Teleport
instances, the TLS credential system we mentioned earlier needs permissions to
manage Route53 DNS records in order to satisfy Let's Encrypt's DNS-01 challenge. 

</Admonition>

### Teleport resource agent configuration for GSLB
To facilitate latency routing, resource agents  must be configured to point ```proxy_server:``` to 

> the GSLB domain configured in Route53 _not the specific proxy NLB address_.

Reviewer 4: Bold this to make it a little more obvious.

```suggestion
the GSLB domain configured in Route53, **not** the specific proxy NLB address.
```

For example:

```
version: v3
teleport:
    nodename: ssh-node
    ...
    proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
    ...
    ssh_service:
        enabled: yes
    ...
```
Review the [configuration reference](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/) page for 
additional settings.       

## Configure Proxy Peering

In this deployment architecure, [Proxy Peering](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/proxy-peering/) is used to restrict the number of connections made from 
resources to proxies in the Teleport Cluster.

This guide covers the necessary Proxy Peering settings for deploying an HA Teleport Cluster routing resource
traffic with GSLB. 

### Auth Service Proxy Peering configuration 

> The Teleport Auth Service must be configured to use the proxy_peering tunnel strategy as shown in the example below:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Teleport Auth Service must be configured to use the `proxy_peering` tunnel strategy as shown in the example below:
```

```
auth_service:
 ...
 tunnel_strategy:
  type: proxy_peering
  agent_connection_count: 2
```
Reference the [Auth Server configuration](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/#auth-service) reference page 
for additional settings.

### Proxy Service Proxy Peering configuration 

Proxies must advertise a peer address which can be configured to use one of the two options listed below:

> **Option 1:** You can set peer_public_addr: to the specific name of that proxy. This is the recommended 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Option 1:** You can set `peer_public_addr` to the specific name of that proxy. This is the recommended 
```

method for lowest latency and most reliable connection.

```
version: v3
teleport:
...
proxy_service:
  ...

>   peer_public_addr: teleport.example.com:3021

Reviewer 4: Make it a little clearer that this is an individual proxy's hostname and not the hostname of the GSLB.

```suggestion
  peer_public_addr: teleport-proxy-eu-west-1-host1.example.com:3021
```

  ...
```

**Option 2:** Proxies can use peer_public_addr: to advertise the proxy NLB. When using this method 
you could incur additional latency or user experience issues because peer proxies must continually dial through the NLB until 
they establish connection to the correct peer target.

```
version: v3
teleport:
...
proxy_service:
  ...
  peer_public_addr: teleport-example-nlb-us-east-1.amazonaws.com:3021
  ...

> ```

Reviewer 4: IMO we shouldn't suggest that people do this for the reasons I listed above. It's easier to configure, but will result in weird behaviour on restarts or in the event of flappy connectivity and make troubleshooting harder than it needs to be (is the lack of connectivity due to a timing problem, a load balancer problem, a problem on the individual proxy host etc)

Proxy peering is not designed to constantly connect and disconnect from the LB until it gets what needs like the tunnel/agent mesh is - it's slower than that and will take a lot longer to settle into a happy state.

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>

> For both Option 1 and 2, agent_connection_count on the Auth service should be set to a value >=2 to decrease

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For both Options 1 and 2, `agent_connection_count` on the Auth service should be set to a value >=2 to decrease
```

the likelihood of agents being unavailable.
</Admonition>

> Refrence the [Proxy Service configuration](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/#proxy-service) reference page 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Reference the [Proxy Service configuration](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/#proxy-service) reference page 
```

manage Route53 DNS records in order to satisfy Let's Encrypt's DNS-01 challenge. 

</Admonition>

### Teleport resource agent configuration for GSLB
To facilitate latency routing, resource agents  must be configured to point ```proxy_server:``` to 
the GSLB domain configured in Route53 _not the specific proxy NLB address_.

For example:

```
version: v3
teleport:
    nodename: ssh-node
    ...
    proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
    ...
    ssh_service:
        enabled: yes
    ...
```
Review the [configuration reference](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/) page for 
additional settings.       

## Configure Proxy Peering

In this deployment architecure, [Proxy Peering](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/proxy-peering/) is used to restrict the number of connections made from 
resources to proxies in the Teleport Cluster.

This guide covers the necessary Proxy Peering settings for deploying an HA Teleport Cluster routing resource
traffic with GSLB. 

### Auth Service Proxy Peering configuration 

The Teleport Auth Service must be configured to use the proxy_peering tunnel strategy as shown in the example below:

```
auth_service:
 ...
 tunnel_strategy:

>   type: proxy_peering

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  type: proxy_peering
  agent_connection_count: 2
```

`agent_connection_count` is configured under tunnel_strategy in the auth config not under the `proxy_service`

Author: @dboslee good catch, I've corrected this.

1. AWS Route 53 Latency based routing is used for Global Server Load Balancing 
   [GSLB](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/global-server-load-balancing-gslb/). 
   This allows for efficient distribution of traffic across resources that are globally distributed.

2. Teleport's Proxy Peering is used to reduce the total number of tunnel connections in the Teleport cluster.

This deployment architecture isn’t recommended for use cases where your users or resources are 
clustered in a single region or for Managed Service Providers needing to provide separate clusters 
to customers.

We recommend this for globally distributed resources and end-users that prefer a single point of
entry while also ensuring minimal latency when accessing connected resources.

### Key deployment components
- High Availability Teleport Cluster
- Deployed exclusively in AWS ecosystem
- Auth Servers must remain in a single region
- Proxies are deployed across multiple regions
- [AWS Route 53 latency based routing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/routing-policy-latency.html) 
- [GSLB](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/global-server-load-balancing-gslb/)

> - [Teleport TLS Routing](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/tls-routing/) to reduce the number of ports needed to use Teleport

Author: @rosstimothy the ALPN headers are required to differentiate legacy agents from proxy peering agents, so TLS routing would be required for that contingency. 

I don't know if this impacts DNS latency routing.

> - [Teleport TLS Routing](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/tls-routing/) to reduce the number of ports needed to use Teleport

Reviewer 5: ALPN can be used by intermediate load balancers (we do this on cloud in order to support tenants with proxy peering enabled or disabled or legacy agents) but the teleport proxy themselves don't handle the agent connections differently based on the ALPN. So TLS routing is not required but a proxy peering deployment requires v10+ agents to work as expected without more complex load balancing.

> - [Teleport TLS Routing](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/tls-routing/) to reduce the number of ports needed to use Teleport

Author: @rosstimothy I think the primary use case is to use TLS Routing.

> - [Teleport TLS Routing](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/tls-routing/) to reduce the number of ports needed to use Teleport

Author: @dboslee I played with some phrasing to try to place this and it felt like an unuseful line without complete instructions for setting up the cluster for non-TLS routing. Can we fold this into another guide or a v2 of this guide?

> - [Teleport TLS Routing](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/tls-routing/) to reduce the number of ports needed to use Teleport

Reviewer 5: Yep I think its fine to leave out for now

- [Teleport Proxy Peering](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/proxy-peering/) for reducing the number of resource connections
- [AWS Network Load Balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html)
- [AWS DynamoDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html) for cluster state storage
- [AWS S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html) for session recording storage

## Advantages of this deployment architecture
- Eliminates the complexity maintaining multiple Teleport clusters across multiple regions
- Uses the lowest latency path to connect users to resources
- Provides a highly-resilient, redundant HA architecture for Teleport that can quickly 
  scale with an organization’s needs.
- All required Teleport components can be provisioned within the AWS ecosystem.
- Using load balancers for the Proxy and Auth services allows for increased availability 
  during Teleport Cluster upgrades. Instances can easily be removed and added while 

>   limiting impact to active users.

Author: Fair enough. I'll remove the second line and add a link to upgrading the cluster.

| Port | Description |
| - | - |
| `443` | ALPN port for TLS Routing,  HTTPS connections to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster, and to serve a Web UI |
| `3021`| Proxy Peering gRPC Stream  |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="VPC peering Proxy NLB ports">

These ports are required:

| Port | Description |
| - | - |
| `443` | ALPN port for TLS Routing,  HTTPS connections to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster, and to serve a Web UI  |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Configure the Auth Service NLB
Configure the load balancer to forward traffic from the following ports on the
load balancer to the corresponding port on an available Teleport instance.

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
Proxies must have network access to the Auth Service NLB. You can accomplish this
in the Route53 GSLB architecure using [VPC Peering](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/what-is-vpc-peering.html) 
or [Transit Gateways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/what-is-transit-gateway.html).
</Admonition>

Internal NLB Auth Service ports

| Port | Description |
| - | - |
| `3025` | TLS port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other Nodes in a cluster |

> ## Cluster state backend

Author: I'm fine with that.

persisting session recordings.

Depeding on how you choose to deploy the Teleport cluster, the Teleport Auth Service can create the required S3 bucket if it doens't already exist.

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

The Auth Service instances [need permissions to get S3 buckets](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/backends/#s3) as well as to create, get, list, 
and update objects.

</Admonition>

## TLS credential provisioning 

High-availability Teleport deployments require a  system to fetch TLS
credentials from a certificate authority like Let's Encrypt, AWS Certificate
Manager, Digicert, or a trusted internal authority. The system must then
provision Teleport Proxy Service instances with these credentials and renew them
periodically. 

For high-availability deployments that use Let's Encrypt to supply TLS
credentials to Teleport instances running behind a load balancer, you need
to use the [ACME
DNS-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge)
challenge to demonstrate domain name ownership to Let's Encrypt. In this
challenge, your TLS credential provisioning system creates a DNS TXT record with

> a value expected by Let's Encrypt.

Author: @WilliamLoy LetsEncrypt only allows DNS-01 for wildcard cert requests which would be needed for app access. 

I can add a line explaining this if you think it is needed.

Each Teleport Proxy Service instance expects TLS credentials for HTTPS to be available at the file
paths `/etc/teleport-tls/tls.key` (private key) and `/etc/teleport-tls/tls.crt`

> (certificate).

Author: @rosstimothy i'm removing this line since it isn't technically required as stated

## Global Server Load Balancing with Route 53

[Latency-based routing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/routing-policy-latency.html) 
in a private hosted zone must be used to ensure traffic from Teleport 
resources are routed to the closest or lowest latency path Proxy NLB based on the region of 

> the VPC the resource is connecting from.

Reviewer 5: Does this assume the resources being connected are also hosted on AWS? How do users resolve DNS if its a private hosted zone?

Author: That is a mistake. I'll update it to reflect that the zone should be public.

Author: It's probably worth mentioning that route53 latency-based routing is only optimized to route traffic to AWS data centers so any resource outside AWS could have varied routing performance compared to the AWS resources.

Reviewer 5: As long as route53 is routing to NLBs as this guide suggest it shouldn't be an issue.

### Root GSLB record for Teleport:

|Record name|Type|Value|
|---|---|---|
|```*teleport.example.com```|CNAME|AWS Route 53 nameservers|

### Teleport Proxy DNS records for GSLB:
|Record name|Type|Routing Policy|Region|Value|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|```teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|us-west-1| ```elb.us-west-1.amazonaws.com``` |
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|us-west-1| ```elb.us-west-1.amazonaws.com``` |
|```teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|
|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

If you are using Let's Encrypt to provide TLS credentials to your Teleport
instances, the TLS credential system we mentioned earlier needs permissions to
manage Route53 DNS records in order to satisfy Let's Encrypt's DNS-01 challenge. 

</Admonition>

### Teleport resource agent configuration for GSLB
To facilitate latency routing, resource agents  must be configured to point ```proxy_server:``` to 
the GSLB domain configured in Route53 _not the specific proxy NLB address_.

For example:

```
teleport:
    nodename: ssh-node
    ...

>     proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443

Author: Good catch. No it will not work. I'll add the version number to the example.

additional settings.       

## Configure Proxy Peering

In this deployment architecure, [Proxy Peering](https://goteleport.com/docs/architecture/proxy-peering/) is used to restrict the number of connections made from 
resources to proxies in the Teleport Cluster.

This guide covers the necessary Proxy Peering settings for deploying an HA Teleport Cluster routing resource
traffic with GSLB. 

### Auth Service Proxy Peering configuration 

The Teleport Auth Service must be configured to use the proxy_peering tunnel strategy as shown in the example below:

```
auth_service:
 ...
 tunnel_strategy:
  type: proxy_peering
```
Reference the [Auth Server configuration](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/#auth-service) reference page 
for additional settings.

### Proxy Service Proxy Peering configuration 

Proxies must advertise a peer address which can be configured to use one of the two options listed below:

**Option 1:** You can set peer_public_addr: to the specific name of that proxy. This is the recommended 
method for lowest latency and most reliable connection.

```
proxy_service:
  ...
  peer_public_addr: teleport.example.com:3021
  agent_connection_count: 2
  ...

> ```

Reviewer 5: We should add a note that VPC peering is required for this configuration to work.

Author: I added a note about this in the Configure the Auth Service NLB section but I can replicate it in the proxy peering section as well.

Author: @dboslee would Transit Gateways not work here as well?

Reviewer 5: I haven't used it but it seems to be a similar service to VPC peering so I am sure it would work.

---
title: "AWS Route 53 GSLB Multi-Region Proxy Peering High Availability Deployment Guide"
description: "Deploying a Proxy-peered High Availability Teleport Cluster using Route 53 to create Global Server Load Balancing"
---

When deploying Teleport in production, you should design your deployment to
ensure that users can continue to access infrastructure should an outage or 
incident affect the availability of your Teleport cluster. 

In order to maintain optimal end-user 
experience with minimal latency and maximum performance, it is imperative to ensure the scalability 

> of your Auth Service and Proxy Service to accommodate increasing numbers of users and connected resources.

Author: I'll reword this to account for the Dynamo limits.

> of your Auth Service and Proxy Service to accommodate increasing numbers of users and connected resources.

Author: I removed this paragraph and the one before it. They don't add useful information to the guide.

- All required Teleport components can be provisioned within the AWS ecosystem.
- Using load balancers for the Proxy and Auth services allows for increased availability 
  during Teleport Cluster upgrades. Instances can easily be removed and added while 
  limiting impact to active users.

## Disadvantages of this deployment architecture
- When Teleport Auth servers are limited to a single region, there is a higher likelihood 
  of decreased availability during an AWS regional outage.
- Technically complex to deploy

![Diagram of a high-availability Teleport
architecture](../../img/deploy-a-cluster/aws-gslb-proxy-peering-ha-deployment.png)

## AWS Network load balancer (NLB)
AWS NLBs are required for this highly available deployment architecture. 
The NLB forwards traffic from users and services to an available Teleport instance. This must not 
terminate TLS, and must transparently forward the TCP traffic it receives. 
In other words, this must be a Layer 4 load balancer, not a Layer 7 
(e.g., HTTP) load balancer. 

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
We recommend enabling cross-zone load balancing for the Auth and Proxy service NLB configurations to route 

> traffic across multiple zones. Doing this improves resiliency against localized AWS zone outages.

Author: Recommendation.

> traffic across multiple zones. Doing this improves resiliency against localized AWS zone outages.

Author: If you disable cross-zone and have instances in zones outside of the same zone as the NLB it won't route the traffic properly.

> traffic across multiple zones. Doing this improves resiliency against localized AWS zone outages.

Author: We would have to explain how to get that to work but I see your point. I'll explain that it is a requirement for this setup.

Configure the load balancer to forward traffic from the following ports on the
load balancer to the corresponding port on an available Teleport instance.

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
Proxies must have network access to the Auth Service NLB. You can accomplish this
in the Route53 GSLB architecure using [VPC Peering](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/what-is-vpc-peering.html) 
or [Transit Gateways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/what-is-transit-gateway.html).
</Admonition>

Internal NLB Auth Service ports

| Port | Description |
| - | - |
| `3025` | TLS port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other Nodes in a cluster |

## Cluster state backend

The Teleport Auth Service stores cluster state (such as dynamic configuration
resources) and audit events as key/value pairs. In high-availability
deployments, you must configure the Auth Service to manage this data in a
key-value store that runs outside of your cluster of Teleport instances.

The Teleport Auth Service manages the creation of any required DynamoDB tables itself, 
and does not require them to exist in advance.

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

> The Auth Service instances needs permissions to read from and write to DynamoDB, as well as 

Reviewer 5: Add link to dynamodb guide https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/backends/#dynamodb

to create tables.

</Admonition>

## Session recording backend

Highly available Teleport deployments use an object storage service for
persisting session recordings.

> Depeding on how you choose to deploy the Teleport cluster, the Teleport Auth Service can create the required S3 bucket if it doens't already exist.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Depending on how you choose to deploy the Teleport cluster, the Teleport Auth Service can create the required S3 bucket if it doesn't already exist.
```

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

> The Auth Service instances need permissions to get S3 buckets as well as to create, get, list, 

Reviewer 5: Add link to s3 guide https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/backends/#s3

|```*.teleport.example.com```|CNAME|Latency|eu-central-1| ```elb.eu_central-1.amazonaws.com```|

<Admonition title="Required permissions">

If you are using Let's Encrypt to provide TLS credentials to your Teleport
instances, the TLS credential system we mentioned earlier needs permissions to
manage Route53 DNS records in order to satisfy Let's Encrypt's DNS-01 challenge. 

</Admonition>

### Teleport resource agent configuration for GSLB
To facilitate latency routing, resource agents  must be configured to point ```proxy_server:``` to 
the GSLB domain configured in Route53 _not the specific proxy NLB address_.

For example:

```
teleport:
    nodename: ssh-node
    ...
    proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
    ...
    ssh_service:
        enabled: yes
    ...
```
Review the [configuration reference](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/) page for 
additional settings.       

## Configure Proxy Peering

In this deployment architecure, Proxy Peering is used to restrict the number of connections made from 
resources to proxies in the Teleport Cluster. Full Proxy Peering explanation and configuration details

> can be reviewed in the [Proxy Peering RFD](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/rfd/0069-proxy-peering.md).

Author: I think that change makes sense.

This guide covers the necessary Proxy Peering settings for deploying an HA Teleport Cluster routing resource
traffic with GSLB. 

### Auth Service Proxy Peering configuration 

The Teleport Auth Service must be configured to use the proxy_peering tunnel strategy as shown in the example below:

```
auth_service:
 ...
 tunnel_strategy:
  type: proxy_peering
```
Reference the [Auth Server configuration](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/config/#auth-service) reference page 
for additional settings.

### Proxy Service Proxy Peering configuration 

Proxies must advertise a peer address which can be configured to use one of the two options listed below:

**Option 1:** You can set peer_public_addr: to the specific name of that proxy. This is the recommended 
method for lowest latency and most reliable connection.

```
proxy_service:
  ...
  peer_public_addr: teleport.example.com:3021
  ...
```

**Option 2:** Proxies can use peer_public_addr: to advertise the proxy NLB. When using this method 
you could incur additional latency because peer proxies must continually dial through the NLB until 

> they establish connection to the correct peer target.

Author: I'll add additional warning messages to option 2.

> When using an NLB for peer_public_addr, be sure to set agent_connection_count to a value >=2.

Author: I assumed the default would be sufficient. If it isn't, we should probably change the default setting.

> When using an NLB for peer_public_addr, be sure to set agent_connection_count to a value >=2.

Reviewer 5: Why does the agent_connection_count matter for NLBs?

> When using an NLB for peer_public_addr, be sure to set agent_connection_count to a value >=2.

Author: It is my understanding, based on the proxy peering RFD, that leaving agent_connection_count=1 increases the likelihood of agent unavailability. To your point, the recommendations don't necessarily have anything to do with the NLB, as the sentence would imply.
As @rosstimothy we should probably recommend >=2 agent_connection_count for option one as well.

---

> title: "AWS Route 53 GSLB Multi-Region Proxy Peering High Availability Deployment Guide"

Reviewer 3: This title has a lot of jargon in it. Can we simplify it a bit?

Author: Would "AWS Multi-Region Single Cluster Deployment" work? I don't know if we need HA explicitly stated in the title.

Reviewer 4: I think having HA in the title is important.

AWS Multi-Region High Availability Deployment Guide

Author: Updated title

description: "Deploying a Proxy-peered High Availability Teleport Cluster using Route 53 to create Global Server Load Balancing"
---

When deploying Teleport in production, you should design your deployment to
ensure that users can continue to access infrastructure should an outage or 
incident affect the availability of your Teleport cluster. 

In order to maintain optimal end-user 
experience with minimal latency and maximum performance, it is imperative to ensure the scalability 
of your Auth Service and Proxy Service to accommodate increasing numbers of users and connected resources.

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

## Overview
This deployment architecure makes all connected resources accessible through a single Teleport cluster 

> across multiple regions using exclusively AWS ecosystem infrastructure. 

Reviewer 3: I might move the note about "exclusively AWS ecosystem" down under the _Key deployment components_ section, since that's where you bring up all the AWS components.

> This is accomplished using AWS Route 53 to create Global Server Load Balancing (GSLB) 

Reviewer 3: I might rephrase this a bit to make it clear what these two pieces provide. Maybe something like this:

This deployment architecture features two important design decisions:
1. AWS Route 53 is used for Global Server Load Balancing (GSLB). This allows for efficient distribution of traffic across resources that are globally distributed.
2. Teleport's Proxy Peering is used to reduce the total number of tunnel connections in the Teleport cluster.

Author: I like your recommendations. The only change I made was specifying Latency based routing is being used as I think readers could easily assume Geolocation routing is being used. It is worth repeating through the guide in my opinion because Latency based is going to improve performance whereas Geolocation won't (as much).

for the Teleport Cluster and Teleport Proxy Peering to reduce the number of connections 
created through the cluster.

This deployment architecture isn’t recommended for use cases where your users or resources are 
clustered in a single region or for Managed Service Providers needing to provide separate clusters 

> to customers. Additionally, this architecture is not a solution for increasing the scalability of 

Reviewer 3: This sentence is a little confusing.

- First we say "it's imperative to ensure the scalability"
- Then we say "this deployment architecture makes all resources accessible through a single Teleport Cluster"
- Lastly, we say "this is not a solution for increasing the scalability of a single cluster"

Feels a bit like rock paper scissors :-)

Author: I think removing "Additionally, this architecture is not a solution for increasing the scalability of 
a single cluster." clears up the confusion. I don't think we need to point out everything this architecture _doesn't do_.

- [AWS Network Load Balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html)
- [AWS DynamoDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html) for cluster state storage
- [AWS S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html) for session recording storage

## Advantages of this deployment architecture
- Eliminates the complexity maintaining multiple Teleport clusters across multiple regions
- Uses the lowest latency path to connect users to resources
- Provides a highly-resilient, redundant HA architecture for Teleport that can quickly 
  scale with an organization’s needs.
- All required Teleport components can be provisioned within the AWS ecosystem.
- Using load balancers for the Proxy and Auth services allows for increased availability 
  during Teleport Cluster upgrades. Instances can easily be removed and added while 
  limiting impact to active users.

## Disadvantages of this deployment architecture
- When Teleport Auth servers are limited to a single region, there is a higher likelihood 
  of decreased availability during an AWS regional outage.
- Technically complex to deploy

> - Long-term cost may be a prohibitive factor for some organizations and can increase total 

Reviewer 3: Can we elaborate on this? What is the highest contributor to the long-term cost? Are there alternatives?

Author: Infrastructure hosting cost probably isn't something we need to be giving opinions on, so I'm just going to remove this rather than elaborate.

  cost of ownership (TCO) throughout the system’s lifetime cycle.

![Diagram of a high-availability Teleport
architecture](../../img/deploy-a-cluster/aws-gslb-proxy-peering-ha-deployment.png)

> ## AWS Network load balancer(NLB)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## AWS Network load balancer (NLB)
```

For this deployment architecture we recommend using AWS NLBs if you plan 

> to use Teleport TLS routing and Proxy Peering. The NLB forwards traffic 

Reviewer 3: We already listed that proxy peering is a key component of this architecture, so are NLBs a recommendation or required?

I think people looking for opinionated architectures like this want you to be very specific.

Author: "AWS NLBs are required for this highly available deployment architecture. 
The NLB forwards traffic from users and services to an available Teleport instance. This must not 
terminate TLS, and must transparently forward the TCP traffic it receives. 
In other words, this must be a Layer 4 load balancer, not a Layer 7 
(e.g., HTTP) load balancer. "

The NLBs aren't required for either of those components, so I removed the mention and pointed out that the NLBs are required for high availability in this deployment.

from users and services to an available Teleport instance. This must not 
terminate TLS, and must transparently forward the TCP traffic it receives. 
In other words, this must be a Layer 4 load balancer, not a Layer 7 
(e.g., HTTP) load balancer. 

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
We recommend enabling cross-zone load balancing for the Auth and Proxy service NLB configurations to route 

> traffic across multiple zones.Doing this improves resiliency against localized AWS zone outages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
traffic across multiple zones. Doing this improves resiliency against localized AWS zone outages.
```
